## Functional Parameters Description
The functional parameters are used to characterize bearing and fluid retention properties of surfaces. All of the functional parameters were derived from an analysis of the Abott-Firestone Curve, or the Bearing Area Curve. The Bearing Area Curve describes the surface texture of an object and is mathematically the cumulative probability density function of the surface profile’s height. The surface bearing index, core fluid retention index, and valley fluid retention index require the calculation of the height of the bearing area curve specifically at bearing area ratios of 5% and 80%.

The calculation of the remainder of the functional parameters were determined using the following procedure. First, the least mean squares line was fitted to draw the 40% segment of the curve that results in the lowest decline. This line was extended to cut the vertical axes for 0% and 100% and horizontal lines were drawn at the intersection points. Then a straight line was drawn from the intersection point between the bearing area ratio curve at 0% and the upper horizontal line, such that the area of this triangle was the same as the area between the horizontal line and the bearing area ratio curve. Using the same principle, a line was drawn between the lower horizontal line and the 100% axis. The reduced summit height, core roughness depth, and reduced valley depth require the calculation of various intersection points along the least mean square line and the heights of the triangles drawn from this procedure.

